Admission to UP Open University

UP Open University (UPOU) offers admission to degree programs in the Undergraduate, Graduate Certificate, Graduate Diploma, Masters, and Doctorate levels. Associate and Certification programs are also offered in UPOU. Admission to UPOU is open to the following:

Philippine-based and offshore-based applicants

Undergraduate transfer students (from another UP unit or university to UPOU)

Any person seeking admission into a program must satisfy the minimum admission requirement specified in the program applied for and must not be a current student (enrolled, on residency, LOA, AWOL) of another university or college. UPOU requires applicants to submit the hard copy of all admission documents.

With regard to foreign applicants who would like to apply for a student visa, UPOU does not require its students to be in residence in the Philippines; hence, it could not assist in the issuance of Student Visa (9F).

UPOU does not allow any concurrent enrollment in two or more degree programs. You must be cleared from all University/ies you have attended prior to application and admission to UPOU. Furthermore, once admitted and enrolled at UPOU, you are not allowed to enroll in any other degree program at another university or in any other UP constituent university.

View the qualifications and requirements for admission to the Associate in Arts (AA) program of UPOU.

View the qualifications and requirements for admission to the Bachelors programs of UPOU.

Teaching Certification Program

View the qualifications and requirements for admission to the Professional Teaching Certification program of UPOU.

Graduate Certificate Program

View the qualifications and requirements for admission to the Graduate Certificate programs of UPOU.

Graduate Diploma Program

View the qualifications and requirements for admission to the Graduate Diploma programs of UPOU.

View the qualifications and requirements for admission to the Master’s programs of UPOU.

View the qualifications and requirements for admission to the Doctorate program of UPOU.
